In this video, you'll learn about
the correspondence between
Kotlin collection types
and Java collection types.
While talking about extensions,
we've discussed that
Kotlin standard library
contains a bunch of
extension methods in
Java collections,
and when you create
a collection in Kotlin,
you actually create
an instance of
Java's standard collection
under the hood.
Thus, there should be
the correspondence between
the list in Kotlin and
the interface Java.util.List.
We already saw that
other types are
replaced at the bytecode
with Java types.
So probably, here it
works the same way.
However, it's not that
straightforward because in Kotlin,
we have both read-on the
list and MutableList.
They both somehow correspond
to one Java.util.List.
How it works then.
Now, let's discuss that.
List and mutablelist are
simple interfaces
defined in Kotlin,
the collection package, and
mutablelist extends List.
Note that we specifically
used the broad
read-only to describe
the interface list in Kotlin.
It's not the same as immutable.
It's not immutable data structure
which cannot be changed.
No. A read-only interface,
just like mutating methods.
The actual list can be
modified via
a different reference.
The question to you, what
happens when running
the code below?
Here, we create
an immutable list,
assign the mutable list
variable to a read-only list,
and modify the initial list.
Are there options?
The assignment won't compile,
we can't modify the initial list,
the initial list will be printed,
all the modified list will be
printed, what's your choice?
This code compile is fine.
What's happening here is at
the read-only reference observes
the mutation of the mutableList.
Here the mutableList refers
to the created List
object in memory.
Then, we assign
the reference to this List
to another variable of
read-only List type.
Having the variable of
the read-only list,
only means that you can't
call add members on such a list,
list likes mutating method.
However, this list can
be modified because
there is another reference
through which you can modify it.
The read-only list will
simply observe this change.
At the bytecode,
both Kotlin list and
mutableList interfaces are
replaced with Java.util.List.
By default, when you create
an instance of mutableList,
Java.util.ArrayList
will be created.
Kotlin somehow pretend that
Java.util.ArrayList implements
kotlin.MutableList.
There are some
compiler magic when
a Java interface is substituted
by the Kotlin interface.
Under the hood, it works via
the same mechanism
as nullable types.
The similar idea of
platform types is used.
That's how the platform type
for collection type is written.
Again, you cannot define
a variable of such type,
you can only find it
in array messages,
or when you check in ID
what type does
this variable have.
This platform type means
that it came from Java,
and it is a type of
unknown mutability.
We don't know whether it was
intended to be
mutable or read-only,
so we can use such type as both.
You can ask, why do we need this?
Why do we need
these read-only types at
all if they are not
truly immutable?
The answer is that with Kotlin,
it's now much more
difficult or even
impossible to break
something accidentally.
The problem with always having
mutable methods in a List,
is that you cannot
understand that this List
shouldn't be changed.
For instance, it is
a part of API and
the API didn't intend to
their list to be modified,
but it's not a library,
it's a piece of
your own application.
You usually simply
return this variable in
Java as of Java.util.List type,
and in Java, you can accidentally
call the add method,
because you think it's a local
collection, but it's not.
In Kotlin, it's no
longer the case.
You can still call
the modification method if you
explicitly cost it to
the mutable collection.
But in this case, you really
want to break this code.
Accidentally, you can't do it,
so such approach prevents
from some possible errors.
Like with nullable types,
Kotlin collection types provide
a good compromise between
safety and convenience.
You explicitly say whether
a collection is intended to be
modified by using
a read-only or mutable type,
and you can easily mix
Kotlin and Java collection types
because the same classes
I used under the hood,
no extra wrapping is needed.
We've discussed
the correspondence
between Kotlin and Java types.
You now know how to
mix two languages,
and better understand how
the Kotlin types are represented
at the bytecode level.